---
layout: 'project'
wrap_title: 'The One Canoe (2008 - 2009)'
categories: 'canoes'
gallery: '1'

status: 'Decommissioned'
theme: 'Lord of the Rings'
placement: '5th'
length: '20 ft'
weight: '160 lbs'
awards: ['']
managers: ['Owen Melville [NSCI0T9]','Jeffrey Castrucci [CHE0T9+PEY]']
---
#### The One Canoe

This year, the concrete canoe team was faced with a daunting task. Defeat Sauron in his heartland of Montreal, Quebec – or risk overrun of SKULE by orcs, artsies, and possibly Africanized bees. The team formed a fellowship of 30 students, with representatives from all disciplines, and determined the best possible course of action. The fellowship must build a canoe – The One Canoe – and take it to Montreal and defeat Sauron in a race. All knew this journey would be difficult, possibly fatal, but nonetheless all remained strong in the face of danger, and in the end Sauron was defeated. Embarrassed, he halted his invasion of SKULE with shame, and went back to his job as an accountant.

Concrete Canoe has many names, one of which is Concrete Canoe. But it is not its plethora of names that makes this team so great – it is the people who compose team – coincidentally each of whom has a name. Everyone who helped out with Concrete Canoe this year – you guys are awesome. The One Canoe belongs to each of you and hopefully it will last as a reminder of your time in Concrete Canoe and in SKULE. 

 - David Ruggiero [NSCI0T8]
 - Victoria Wilson [ARTS1T0]
 - Michael Ferri [NSCI1T0]
 - Chen Chen [INDY0T9]
 - Mark Ngo [CHE0T8]
 - Lianting Ni [NSCI1T0]
 - Sanae Rosen [NSCI1T1]
 - Timothy van Putten [CIV0T9]
 - Jonathan Ho [NSCI1T0]
 - Jennifer Eversley [CIV1T0]
 - Mike Lacourt [CHE0T9]
 - Paul Haist [ECE0T9+PEY]
 - Eric Bradshaw [MEK0T9+PEY]
 - Eva Potter [CIV1T2]
 - Andy Dhargyal [CIV1T1]
 - Annie Kuang [MSE1T1]
 - Bennett Yan [MSE1T2]
 - David Ferri [MSE1T2]
 - Fiona Singarayar [NSCI1T0]
 - Janet Wong [MSE1T1]
 - Jia Yi Guan [CHE1T1]
 - Kristiana Dean [CHE1T0]
 - Mark Gaglione [CIV1T1]
 - Paul Radcliffe [MEng 1T0]
